
Ingredients
Metric US

    Olive oil, for frying
    700 grams fillet of beef
    1 whole head of garlic, cut in half horizontally
    3–4 thyme sprigs
    Butter
    Sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
    1 baby gem lettuce, to serve

    For the spicy tomato relish
    Olive oil, for frying
    ½ red onion, peeled and finely chopped
    2 red chillies, deseeded and chopped
    250 grams mixed red and yellow cherry
    Tomatoes, halved
    2 teaspoons sherry vinegar, to taste
    Small handful of shredded basil leaves

    For the mustard mayonnaise
    3 tablespoons good-quality mayonnaise
    3 teaspoons wholegrain mustard
    For the toasted ciabatta
    12 slices of ciabatta, about 1.5cm thick
    3 tablespoons olive oil

Method

    Preheat the oven to 200°C/Gas 6.
    Heat a large ovenproof frying pan until hot and add a glug of oil. Grind a generous amount of salt and pepper onto a board and roll the fillet in the seasoning. Fry over a high heat for 1–2 minutes on each side until gently coloured all over, including the ends. Add the garlic and thyme sprigs, heat for a minute, then sit the beef on top of them. Add a couple of knobs of butter, spooning it over the steak to baste.
    Place the beef in the preheated oven and roast for 15–17 minutes until rare or medium rare. It should feel springy when pressed. Remove from the oven, cover loosely with foil and leave to rest for 15 minutes, basting now and again with the juices from the pan.
    Meanwhile, make the relish. Heat the olive oil in a large frying pan, add the onion and chillies and fry over a medium heat for about 5 minutes until softened. Stir in the tomatoes, then season and cook for 6–8 minutes until the tomatoes are beginning to collapse. Add the vinegar and stew down over a medium heat for about 6 minutes until reduced to a rough relish consistency. Remove from the heat, stir in the basil and season well. Tip into a serving bowl and set aside.
    Combine the ingredients for the mustard mayonnaise. Season, then spoon into a serving bowl and set aside.
    To make the toast, heat a griddle pan until smoking hot. Drizzle the sliced ciabatta with the olive oil, season and then griddle for 1–2 minutes until golden on both sides. Repeat until all the bread is toasted and then place on a serving platter.
    To serve, thickly slice the rested fillet of beef, place on a platter and put on the table with the toast, mayonnaise, relish and lettuce leaves to be assembled by your guests.

